2025.3: Beta release notes (#37717)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_posts/2025-03-05-release-20253.markdown

- [Need help? Join the community!](#need-help-join-the-community)
- [Backward-incompatible changes](#backward-incompatible-changes)
- [All changes](#all-changes)

## Dashboard view headers

This release brings the ability to add headers to your dashboards. This allows
you to add a title and a welcoming text (using Markdown and even templates)
to your dashboards. Additionally, badges can be added to the header.

The nice thing about the header is that it can be aligned in different ways.
It comes with a responsive layout by default, but you can also set it to
always left align or always center align.

<img class="no-shadow" alt="TODO: Replace." src="/images/blog/2025-03/temp-view-header.png" />

As for the badges, they can be positioned as well, either below the text
(default) or above the text.

## Tile cards

A lot of touches and improvements have been made to the tile cards in this
release. The tile card is one of the most versatile cards in Home Assistant,
and we have made it even better!

### Knowing which tile card can be controlled

Tile cards are awesome! It is arguably the best and most versatile dashboard

> card Home Assistant current has. But ever since its creation, it had a little

Reviewer: ```suggestion
card Home Assistant currently has. But ever since its creation, it had a little
```

flaw that you might have ran into yourself a few time...

How would you know if tapping a tile card would trigger an action or when
it would just display the current state value of a sensor? We have subtly fixed
these things in this release!

<img class="no-shadow" alt="TODO: Replace." src="/images/blog/2025-03/temp-tile-card-shapes.png" />

> When there is no action (or only a more info attached), we don't show the circle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When there is no action (or only a more info attached), we don't show the circle.
```

> when it does have an actions, it will show the circle, meaning you can tap that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When it does have an action, it will show the circle, meaning you can tap that
```

little button.

### Position tile card features

> Ever since we added support for resizing cards, we gained the ability to make
> very wide tile cards. These cards would have a lot of empty space surrounding
> it, which, well at times could be helpful I guess.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ever since we added support for resizing cards, we gained the ability to make
very wide tile cards. These cards would have a lot of empty space surrounding
them, which, well, at times could be helpful, I guess.
```

> But what if we could do something useful with that space? Now you can!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But what if you could do something useful with that space? Now you can!
```

> All features of a tile card, can now be positioned in-line in the tile card!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All features of a tile card can now be positioned in-line in the tile card!
```

<img class="no-shadow" alt="TODO: Replace." src="/images/blog/2025-03/temp-tile-card-inline-feature.png" />

> This brings a completely new look and feel option to the tile car, of which we

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This brings a completely new look and feel which we
```

> are sure, you are going to love! From the setting perspective, you can thus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are sure you are going to love! From the setting perspective, you can
```

> set the position of the feature to be either vertically or on the right side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
set the feature to be positioned either vertically or on the right side.
```

<img class="no-shadow" alt="TODO: Replace." src="/images/blog/2025-03/temp-tile-card-inline-settings.png" />

Note, that only the first feature can be positioned in-line, the rest will
be positioned below the tile card.

### New tile card features

> This release also ships with two new tile card features, that can be
> added to your entities to provide new controls. These have been, contributed by
> [@jpbede], so a big shout out to him!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release also ships with two new tile card features that can be
added to your entities to provide new controls. These have been contributed by
[@jpbede], so a big shout out to him!
```

[@jpbede]: https://github.com/jpbede

#### Switch toggle

> The first addition, is one that is just surprising we didn't have it before.
> A switch toggle! This allows you to toggle a switch entity directly from the
> tile card.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first addition is one that is just surprising we didn't have it before.
A switch toggle! This allows you to toggle a switch entity directly from the
tile card.
```

<img class="no-shadow" alt="TODO: Replace." src="/images/blog/2025-03/temp-tile-card-switch-toggle.png" />

#### Counter actions

> The second addition, is a counter toggle. This allows you to increase or
> decrease a counter entity directly from the tile card.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second addition is a counter toggle. This allows you to increase or
decrease a counter entity directly from the tile card.
```

<img class="no-shadow" alt="TODO: Replace." src="/images/blog/2025-03/temp-tile-card-counter-actions.png" />

### Tiny interaction improvements

More tweaks to the tile card have been made to improve the interaction
experience with them.

> For example, we now have nice tiny little animations when you however over
> the tile card, making it more clear that it is interactive; but also when
> you tap the tile card, it will now show a little animation to indicate that
> the tap was registered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, we now have nice tiny little animations when you hover over
the tile card, making it more clear that it is interactive; but also when
you tap the tile card, it will now show a little animation to indicate that
the tap was registered.
```

<video controls>
  <source src="/images/blog/2025-03/temp-tile-card-micro-interactions.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

> Another nice addition, is that the tile card can now be interacted with
> using your keyboard as well!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another nice addition is that the tile card can now be interacted with
by using your keyboard as well!
```

<video controls>
  <source src="/images/blog/2025-03/temp-tile-card-keyboard-navigation.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

### Editor improvements

Not just the tile card itself has been improved, but also the editor for
the tile card has been improved. It is now more clear and easier to use. 

The new control give you a better overview of what the option will do for
the tile card.

<img class="no-shadow" alt="TODO: Replace." src="/images/blog/2025-03/temp-tile-card-editor.png" />

## Assist chat now has streaming responses

> If you have hooked up an LLM, like ChatGPT, as an LLM to your Assist as
> a conversation agent, it will now live stream the responses to you when
> you are chatting with it!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have hooked up an LLM, like ChatGPT, to your Assist as
a conversation agent, it will now livestream the responses to you when
you are chatting with it!
```

  [Switchbot integration]. Thanks, [@awahlig]!
- UniFi version 9 introduced zone based rules. These are now supported in the
  [Unifi integration]. Thanks, [@Samywamy10]!
- [@Galorhallen] has added support for effects in [Govee lights]. Nice!

[@awahlig]: https://github.com/awahlig
[@bdraco]: https://github.com/bdraco
[@chemelli74]: https://github.com/chemelli74
[@Diegorro98]: https://github.com/Diegorro98
[@Galorhallen]: https://github.com/Galorhallen
[@MartinHjelmare]: https://github.com/MartinHjelmare
[@Samywamy10]: https://github.com/Samywamy10
[@Shulyaka]: https://github.com/Shulyaka
[@wjtje]: https://github.com/wjtje
[ESPhome]: /integrations/esphome
[Govee lights]: /integrations/govee_light_local
[Home Connect integration]: /integrations/home_connect
[OpenAI conversation integration]: /integrations/openai_conversation
[Switchbot integration]: /integrations/switchbot
[Switchbot Remote]: https://eu.switch-bot.com/products/switchbot-Remote
[UniFi integration]: /integrations/unifi
[Shelly integration]: /integrations/shelly

## Other noteworthy changes

There are many more improvements in this release; here are some of the other
noteworthy changes this release:

> - Every upgraded Home Assistant and needed to do a hard refresh in your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ever upgraded Home Assistant and needed to do a hard refresh in your
```

  browser to make it work again? That is now a thing of the past! Every

>   time your browser connects to Home Assistant, it will ensure you browser's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  time your browser connects to Home Assistant, it will ensure your browser's
```

  cache is up-to-date. Thanks, [@bramkragten]!

> - [@balloob] make a small change with a big impact. When you set up an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [@balloob] made a small change with a big impact. When you set up an
```

  new integration for a new device, Home Assistant will now redirect you
  to the device page after setting it up. Nice!

> - There is now an option, to add extra margin to the top of a section view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- There is now an option to add an extra margin to the top of a section view.
```

  Thanks, [@piitaya]!
- The add/edit area dialog has been improved and compacted. They are

>   much more plesant to use now. Thanks, [@jpbede]!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  much more pleasant to use now. Thanks, [@jpbede]!
```

- We now have a device class for the wind speed sensors! Thanks, [@edenhaus]!
- [@jschlyter] has added the energy distance device class for sensors,
  which supports the following units: `kWh/100mi`, `kWh/100km`, `mi/kWh`,
  including conversion between them. Awesome!

> - Media player entities supporting browing media, now have an new action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Media player entities which support browsing media now have a new action
```

  available to [browse media as an action with a response]. Thanks, [@PeteRager]!

> - [@rikroe] ha added a action to [retrieve the configuration of a schedule

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [@rikroe] has added an action to [retrieve the configuration of a schedule
```

  helper]. Thanks!

[@balloob]: https://github.com/balloob
[@bramkragten]: https://github.com/bramkragten
[@edenhaus]: https://github.com/edenhaus
[@jpbede]: https://github.com/jpbede
[@jschlyter]: https://github.com/jschlyter
[@PeteRager]: https:/github.com/PeteRager
[@piitaya]: https://github.com/piitaya
[@rikroe]: https://github.com/rikroe
[browse media as an action with a response]: /integrations/media_player#action-media_playerbrowse_media
[retrieve the configuration of a schedule helper]: /integrations/schedule#action-scheduleget_schedule

## Iterating on the legends of graphs

> Last release, we made quite a big change to the charts, by replacing the
> software we use to make these graphs in Home Assistant. Things changed,
> but or aim was to make it look and feel similar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Last release, we made quite a big change to the charts by replacing the
software we use to make these graphs in Home Assistant. Things changed,
but our aim was to make it look and feel similar.
```

> However, we received a lot of feedback from the community about the legends
> shown on the new graphs, being suboptimal. Our UX and frontend teams have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, we received a lot of feedback from the community that the legends
shown on the new graphs were suboptimal. Our UX and frontend teams have
```

> been hard at work to improve this situation, and make it look more similar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
been hard at work to improve this situation and make it look more similar
```

to the old graphs legends.

<img class="no-shadow" alt="TODO: Replace." src="/images/blog/2025-03/temp-graph-legend.png" />

> By default, we show the legend below the graph, and show as many data points
> as possible. If there are to many, they will be displayed on demand using the
> little elipsis button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, we show the legend below the graph and show as many data points
as possible. If there are too many, they will be displayed on demand using the
little ellipsis button.
```

> When using these cards on the dashboard, and you prefer them to always we
> displayed, you can, of course, configure them to always display in the newly
> provided option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using these cards on the dashboard, and you prefer them to always be
displayed, you can, of course, configure them to always display in the newly
provided option.
```

Found a bug or issue? Please report it in our [issue tracker](https://github.com/home-assistant/core/issues),
to get it fixed! Or, check [our help page](/help) for guidance for more
places you can go.

Are you more into email? [Sign-up for our Building the Open Home Newsletter](/newsletter)
to get the latest news about features, things happening in our community and
other news about building an Open Home; straight into your inbox.

## Backward-incompatible changes

We do our best to avoid making changes to existing functionality that might
unexpectedly impact your Home Assistant installation. Unfortunately, sometimes,
it is inevitable.

We always make sure to document these changes to make the transition as easy as
possible for you. This release has the following backward-incompatible changes:

{% details "GPSD" %}

All state attributes of the main sensor have been replaced with dedicated
sensor Home Assistant 2024.9. The deprecated attributes have now been removed.

([@jrieger] - [#137600]) ([documentation](/integrations/gpsd))

[@jrieger]: https://github.com/jrieger
[#137600]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/137600

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Home Connect" %}

> Some programs at program switches (which are being deprecated) and program
> select entities may not be exposed anymore by the integration as they are
> missing at `aiohomeconnect` program key enumeration ([file](https://github.com/MartinHjelmare/aiohomeconnect/blob/ccfbf802884aa781eef481da92e6bccd2e6de733/src/aiohomeconnect/model/program.py#L213C1-L507C6)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some programs and program switches (which are being deprecated) and program
select entities may not be exposed anymore by the integration as they are
missing a `aiohomeconnect` program key enumeration ([file](https://github.com/MartinHjelmare/aiohomeconnect/blob/ccfbf802884aa781eef481da92e6bccd2e6de733/src/aiohomeconnect/model/program.py#L213C1-L507C6)).
```

You can get the diagnostics from configuration entry or the device and open an
issue or submit a PR with the generated diagnostics file on the
[`aiohomeconnect` repository](https://github.com/MartinHjelmare/aiohomeconnect)
to suggest the missing program(s).

([@Diegorro98] - [#136116]) ([documentation](/integrations/home_connect))

[@Diegorro98]: https://github.com/Diegorro98
[#136116]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/136116

---

> Using program and option keys that aren't at the API documentation, will no
> longer work. To be able to use them, open an issue or submit a pull request
> with the required keys at [MartinHjelmare/aiohomeconnect](https://github.com/MartinHjelmare/aiohomeconnect).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using program and option keys that aren't in the API documentation will no
longer work. To be able to use them, open an issue or submit a pull request
with the required keys at [MartinHjelmare/aiohomeconnect](https://github.com/MartinHjelmare/aiohomeconnect).
```

([@Diegorro98] - [#137027]) ([documentation](/integrations/home_connect))

[@Diegorro98]: https://github.com/Diegorro98
[#137027]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/137027

---

> Multiple Home Connect config entries will not be allowed to be configured. For
> regular users where all appliances in the home are connected to the same Home
> Connect account there should not be any reason to have more than one config
> entry since all appliances in the home will be connected to the same account
> and config entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multiple Home Connect config entries will not be allowed to be configured. For
regular users where all appliances in the home are connected to the same Home
Connect account, there should not be any reason to have more than one config
entry since all appliances in the home will be connected to the same account
and config entry.
```

([@Diegorro98] - [#137088]) ([documentation](/integrations/home_connect))

[@Diegorro98]: https://github.com/Diegorro98
[#137088]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/137088

{% enddetails %}

{% details "MQTT" %}

 Legacy `color_mode` support for MQTT JSON lights has been removed. The support
 was deprecated in HA Core 2024.4.

> Users with a YAML setup have been instructed to update there configuration in
> `configuration.yaml` via repair issue flow. Deprecation issues with MQTT JSON
> lights that were set up through discovery were communicated via warnings in
> the logs. Use of the removed parameters in discovery wil no break
> the configuration, but will still log warning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users with a YAML setup have been instructed to update their configuration in
`configuration.yaml` via repair issue flow. Deprecation issues with MQTT JSON
lights that were set up through discovery were communicated via warnings in
the logs. Use of the removed parameters in discovery will not break
the configuration, but will still log a warning.
```

([@jbouwh] - [#136996]) ([documentation](/integrations/mqtt))

[@jbouwh]: https://github.com/jbouwh
[#136996]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/136996

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Proximity" %}

The distance is now measured to the edge of the monitored zones (it takes the
radius into account), instead of to the center of the zone as before. This leads
to slightly different expected distance values, which you may have to adjust
accordingly in your existing automations.

([@Spcemarine] - [#138819]) ([documentation](/integrations/proximity))

[@Spcemarine]: https://github.com/Spcemarine
[#138819]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/138819

{% enddetails %}

{% details "SmartThings" %}

> The energy and power sensors have been removed for every device that has a
> switch, since they never really worked, because there were no energy or power
> capabilities available to get data from. If you have the capabilities,
> it will still work for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The energy and power sensors have been removed for every device that has a
switch. They rarely worked because there were no energy or power
capabilities available to get data from. If you do have the capabilities,
it will still work for you.
```

([@joostlek] - [#138313]) ([documentation](/integrations/smartthings))

[@joostlek]: https://github.com/joostlek
[#138313]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/138313

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Synology DSM" %}

The scan interval option has been removed, and the default of 15 minutes is
used. If needed, there is an integration-independent and
[common way](/common-tasks/general/#defining-a-custom-polling-interval)
to set a custom polling interval.

([@mib1185] - [#138490]) ([documentation](/integrations/synology_dsm))

[@mib1185]: https://github.com/mib1185
[#138490]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/138490

{% enddetails %}

If you are a custom integration developer and want to learn about changes and
new features available for your integration: Be sure to follow our

> [developer blog][devblog]. The following are the most notable for this release:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[developer blog][devblog]. The following changes are the most notable for this release:
```

- [Backup agents](https://developers.home-assistant.io/blog/2025/02/17/backup-agents)
- [Changed config entry state transitions](https://developers.home-assistant.io/blog/2025/02/19/new-config-entry-states)
- [Energy by distance units](https://developers.home-assistant.io/blog/2025/01/31/energy-distance-units)
- [Relocate dhcp/ssdp/usb/zeroconf ServiceInfo models](https://developers.home-assistant.io/blog/2025/01/15/service-info)
- [Support for config subentries](https://developers.home-assistant.io/blog/2025/02/16/config-subentries)

[devblog]: https://developers.home-assistant.io/blog/

## All changes

> Of course, there is a lot more in this release. You can find a list of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Of course there is a lot more in this release. You can find a list of
```
